# Woke Sorcery

Gene Callahan

"we‘re sick and tired of your ism schism game￼"

"Midnight on a carousel ride
Reaching for that gold ring
Down inside
Never could reach it
Just slips away
When I try"

It may seem bizarre to analyze any current world events as involving sorcery:
surely, sorcery is something that was never real, and attempts at sorcery
disappeared hundreds of years ago.

To the contrary, the brilliant philosopher Eric Voegelin demonstrated that many
of the new political ideologies that have arisen during the previous two
centuries have, in fact, been efforts to change the world by casting a spell of
words over it.

Voegelin aimed his analysis chiefly at 19th-century thinkers such as Hegel,
Marx, and Comte. He notes that Hegel, in particular, quite clearly saw himself
as a sorcerer, as he talked about his *Zauberworte* (magic words) and his



But I myself fell into the enchantment of a more modern
sorcerer’s spell: that spell, called "Scientology," cast by L. Ron Hubbard.
After two years, I was able to break free of the spill only when presented with
an analysis of how such a spell could be cast: once that happened, I realized
that Hubbard had literally entrapped me in a net woven by his words.

The analysis of sorcery that enabled me to understand what Hubbard was doing
was provided to me by Carlos Castañeda, in his discussion of "the second ring
of power," in books that quite explicitly were about sorcery. I have no idea if
Castañeda had ever read Voegelin, but it is interesting that Voegelin posited
that sorcery was an attempt to create a "second reality."
 
But what is this "second ring of power," or "second reality"? It is a reality
created by a spell of words, that is supposed to be more real than the primary
reality that we encounter every day.

How in the world could a "sorcerer" create such a "second reality" or possibly
make living in it it seem preferable to living in primary reality?

The first thing a sorcerer must do is seduce his acolytes into the secondary
reality by offering some genuine insights about the nature of primary reality.
So, for instance, Hegel, a brilliant student of the history of philosophy,
could offer his readers novel perspectives on the development of the subject.
Marx, who was a keen observer of the social scene around him, could provide
genuine insights into mid-19th-century European social relations. Hubbard, who
had studied Buddhism, psychoanalysis, and cybernetics, could offer potential
acolytes an interesting perspective on their psychological difficulties.

Voegelin refers to this process as: "Replacing the first reality of experience
by the second reality of imaginative construction, and endowing the imaginary
reality with the appearance of truth by letting it absorb pieces of first
reality" ("On Hegel," page 224).

But this sort of sorcery is far from limited to Hegel; as Voegelin notes,
it is "the great confidence game played by modern man... under such titles as
advertisement, propaganda, communication, and comprehensively, as ideological
politics" (OH, p. 225).

The truths offered by a sorcerer, however, only serve as lures, inviting
acolytes into the sorcerer’s second reality. Once "hooked" by these lures,
the apprentice is then "educated" into a whole new way of viewing the world.
This new vision is made attractive by the assertion on the part of the sorcerer
that those who have embraced it are now superior to the run-of-the-mill
humanity who have not done so. For example, followers of Hegel are told that
they are at the forefront of the historical development of geist. The most
devoted Marxists are assured that they are "the vanguard of the proletariat."
And the devotees of Hubbard were promised that they could become "operating
thetans," acquiring capabilities not available to non-Scientilogists. 

As Voegelin noted, "Once you have entered into the magic circle the sorcerer
has drawn around himself, you are lost" (OH, 228).



Once we have understood the general nature of *Zauberworte*, of the magic words
sorcerers use to cast their spell, we can proceed to look at the specific word
magic of woke ideology.


imbecile --> retarded --> special needs

The actual issue is that those of us with normal mental capacities should
exercise kindness and compassion towards those who were not so blessed, and
realize that it is no accomplishment of our own not, for instance, to be born
with Down's Syndrome.

But *that* involves a change of heart, and is more
difficult to accomplish than is a change in terminology.

The *reality* is that
many people feel the intellect they have been gifted with is somehow their own
accomplishment, and thus feel entitled to those who have not been equally
gifted.

Negro --> colored --> black --> African-American --> Black


I studied Ghanian drumming for several years with the master drummer Martin
Obeng. My son, in third of fourth grade, knowing about this, asked me, "Aren't
most of the people in Ghana African-American?"

"No," I told him, "most of them are African-African."

My Puerto Rican next-door-neighbor once called me up while I was at work, and
told me, "A truck pulled up in your driveway... and a bunch of
*African-Americans* got out of it... I'm worried you're being robbed."

In fact, this was a tree-cutting crew I had hired. But notice how my neighbor,
in her racial stereotyping, was careful to use the then politically correct
term for the men she saw, as though such word magic could erase the
stereotyping.

Word magic is also rampant in "gender" discussions. In fact, the very shift
from talking about a person's "sex" to talking about a person's "gender" was
itself an instance of word magic, as though discussing the biological reality
of sexual dimorphism as though at were an arbitrary category like gender in a
language could transform biological reality into social convention.


People are "assigned" a gender at birth. They "really" are whatever gender they
choose to adopt. (Notice the belief in *Zauberworte* implicit in this position:
it doesn't matter if you have a penis, testicles, and lots of testosterone
coursing through your body: just so long as others refer to you as "she," you
*really are* a woman. (And further, if they refer to you as "ze" or "they" or
"flaubergaustemis", then you *really are* some imaginary alternative sex.


"Peaceful protests"

Dan's example!

No matter how much violence is occurring, so long as we *call* what is going on
"peaceful protests", they actually will be, magically, made peaceful.



(Must include something on Neocon magic.)







Man sits on a moving swing, rising at one moment so high that he feels he can
nearly touch heaven, dipping so low at the next that he Is singed by the flames
of hell. This is what Plato referred to as the metaxy, the "in-between" of
human existence. How great is the temptation, at the top of the arc, to try to
seize hold of that paradise so near.

Truth is only intrasystemic... first you must accept the premises, then discuss
its content — V. Pg 236 Drama

If you do not accept the premises of critical race theory, that cannot be
discussed: you are simply branded a racist, and dismissed.

" to believe on insufficient evidence is a decision, it’s an immoral act to
believe with insufficient evidence." V. 237

" once this Mode of being￼ has been realized, it is as difficult to get out of
it as it is to wake oneself up" V. quoting Sartre 238


Whether Race has any biological reality is irrelevant to ethical and political
questions, where the relevant question is "does it have any moral meaning?" but
while dismissing Race as a biological characteristic, it is the critical race
theory us who answer the latter question with a resounding "yes," in all of
their condemnation of "whiteness."

"The fanaticism of smashing all establish social order, of removing all
individual suspect of harboring order in their existence, and of annihilating
every attempt at re-organization. Only by destroying something has this
negative well the feeling of its own existence. Even if he believes to Willa
positive state, as friends since the state of general quality... It does in fact
not want its realization for that would reestablish the very order... From whose
annihilation this negative freedom drives it self-consciousness" — Voegelin
quoting Hegel, p. 158 vol. 12

Ideologies gain their plausibility because they have genuinely pointed at
something that is really a sin, say "racism" or "capitalist exploitation." The
problem with them is that they try to treat that one sin as though it were the
only sin in existence.


How to differentiate a religious leader from a cult leader: a religious leader
tries to point followers to a greater reality which he admits he only partially
comprehends. A cult leader tries to entrap followers in an epistemic closure in
which he knows everything.


"Political correctness is communist propaganda writ small... the purpose is not
to persuade or convince, not to inform, but to humiliate; and therefore, the
less it corresponds to reality the better."
— Theodore Dalrymple

The charge of "whataboutism" is *not* a way of replying to a critic. It is a way of *ignoring* the critic. Look:

MARXIST: The capitalists exploited the workers.

CRITIC: OK, but what about the fact that the USSR threw millions of workers into Gulags?

MARXIST: Ah! Whataboutism!!!


**Bodies**

Gnostic?




https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/07/dehumanizing-condescension-white-fragility/614146/?fbclid=IwAR06k8a9REo-dixK7zTt8cq3-THZO9pqVEbpxaLQBc9ySO3-04XsOW5IpNI

http://www.aclrc.com/myth-of-reverse-racism

https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.abqjournal.com/1468024/from-my-bookshelf-to-yours-only-white-people-can-be-considered-racist.html/amp



https://www.mndaily.com/article/2020/06/can-white-people-experience-racism-pt-ii


https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.vice.com/amp/en_us/article/kwzjvz/dear-white-people-please-stop-pretending-reverse-racism-is-real


https://thepostmillennial.com/co-founder-of-black-lives-matter-vancouver-says-that-reliability-and-loyalty-are-white-supremacy





